Analysis of Weekly Fare Revenue by City Type

Overview: 
The following results come from an investigation of revenue trends from PyBer in 2019. Weekly revenue generated by fares across urban, suburban, and rural city types in the operating region was analyzed in search of trends. Additionally, we explored potential inefficiencies in the business model.


Data Analysis results: 
The analysis determined the total number of rides taken and drivers working for each city type; along with the net revenue, average fare per ride and average fare per driver. A vizualization of the revenue by fares in the first 4 months of 2019 by PyBer was also generated as part of the analysis.


Summary Data: 
To generate the summary data, the city dataframes and ride dataframes were merged by city into a complete dataset. A summation of rides, drivers, and the fare was found for each city type. The mean fare per ride and fare per driver were also found and assembled into a separate dataframe.

As shown in the summary data - more densely populated urban environments tend to generate the most revenue by fares ($39,854.38). They also had the greatest number of rides and total drivers. Conversly, rural cities with lower populations generated less revenue and had fewer riders and drivers.  Utilization on a per capita basis could not be found due to a lack of population data, so this disparity may be solely because of population numbers / density. 

In place of a per capita measure, we can instead look at the average fare per ride and average fare per driver. The average fare per ride and fare per driver are inversely proportionate to population density, meaning that fares are generally higher in lower population areas and lower in higher population areas. Supply is inversely proportionate to demand, so if there is a higher demand relative to the number of drivers in rural areas, it would make sense that costs are higher. The ratio of rides to drivers in rural cities is nearly 2:1, while urban cities have a nearly 1:2 ratio of rides to drivers. This is most likely why fares are higher in rural areas.


Total Weekly Revenue by City Type: 
An analysis of the utilization of PyBer in the first 4 months has indicated that time of year is not a factor in the level of demand. Regardless of city type, there was near uniform use of the service across the first 4 months of 2019. Utilization, and therefore revenue, of the app saw a noticeable, but not hugely significant increase in late January, as well as through the month of February. This could be attributed to many things, such as the end of the holiday season and / or inclimate weather through the winter season, or a slight increase in the popularity of the app. There are too many outside variables to say for certain what the source of the increase was. 


Conclusion:  
One clear conclusion which can be drawn from this analysis is that a shortage of drivers leads to higher fares. In order to increase the popularity of PyBer in more rural areas, we might do well to advertise the benfits of becoming even a part-time driver. With increased driver availability, fares will be driven down, which will more than likely increase the demand for the service. As long as the increase in demand out-weighs the price decrease, our revenue will end up increasing, and the popularity of the app will trend up. No meaningful takeaways can be taken from the analysis of total weekly revenue by city type